Testability statements for Section 7 of the Core Baseline Specification (#207)
eea-oasis/baseline-standard: core/baseline-core-v1.0-psd01.md

An individual, organization, or company that has legal rights and obligations.

**Low latency:**

> A latency that does not Material Impact the overall system latency of the BPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A latency that does not Materially Impact the overall system latency of the BPI.
```

#### **[R279]** 
Data in transit in a BPI MUST be encrypted.

[[R279]](#r279) Testability: Any data submitted through a common communication/messaging protocol such as TCP/IP or libp2p can be encrypted using widely available, security audited cryptographic libraries which have a test suite e.g. [Sodium](https://doc.libsodium.org/). Therefore, the requirement is testable.

#### **[R280]** 
Data at rest in a BPI MUST be encrypted.

[[R280]](#r280) Testability: Any data stored in a common, widely used storage medum such as a database can be encrypted either through native cryptographic libraries or using widely available, security audited cryptographic libraries which have a test suite e.g. [Sodium](https://doc.libsodium.org/). Therefore, the requirement is testable.

#### **[R281]**	
BPI Storage arranged in a network MUST support pairwise key/identity relationships between storage nodes.

*This is also known as a secure connection.*

> [[R281]](#r281) Testability: An example of BPI Storage organized in a network could be an open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base cluster with replication across different geographies. Since PostgreSQL supports [[OAuth-2.0](#oauth-20)] betweenc client and server and between servers, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive testuite including for OAuth-2.0, the requirement is testable.

Reviewer 2: typo? `testuite`

Author: fixed with a new commit @mehranshakeri

#### **[R282]**	
BPI Storage MUST be compatible with commonly used external authentication services. 

*Non-normative examples of such authentication technologies are OAUTH [[OAuth-2.0](#oauth-20)] , SAML [[SAML](#saml)] , OIDC [[OIDC](#oidc)], AD/LDAP [[ActiveDirectory](#activedirectory)].*

> [[R282]](#r282) Testability: An example of BPI Storage could be an open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base. Since PostgreSQL supports [[OAuth-2.0](#oauth-20)] between client and server and between servers, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive testuite including for OAuth-2.0, the requirement is testable.

Reviewer 2: Same here. `testuite`

Author: fixed with a new commit @mehranshakeri

#### **[R287]**	
BPI Storage MUST support hardware security modules (HSM). 

*This document adopts the [NIST definition](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/hardware_security_module_hsm) and for further information, refer to [[HSM](#hsm)].*

[[R287]](#r287) Testability: Common BPI storage options such as [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) with their comprehensive test suite of all funcitonality support [cryptographic key based authentication frameworks such as Oauth-2.0](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/auth-methods.html). Since the private keys associated with the public keys used in cryptographic key based authentication frameworks can be managed in HSM-based services such as [AWS KMS](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/), the requirement is testable.

## 7.2. BPI Storage Privacy

As has been done throughout this document, there are BPI layer-specific privacy requirements for layers and/or components which are listed below. It is assumed that the BPI Storage capabilities are required to fulfill all BPI privacy requirements in section [2 Design and Architecture](#2-design-and-architecture).

#### **[R288]**	
Personal Identifiable Information (PII) MUST NOT be stored in a BPI.

> [[R288]](#r288) Testability: Since BPI Storage supports testable policy management (see [[R284]](#r284)), and since preventing PII storage can be cast into a policy, the requirement is teatble because of testability of [[R284]](#r284).

Reviewer 2: type `teatble`

Author: fixed with a new commit @mehranshakeri

> [[R288]](#r288) Testability: Since BPI Storage supports testable policy management (see [[R284]](#r284)), and since preventing PII storage can be cast into a policy, the requirement is testable because of testability of [[R284]](#r284).

Reviewer: I don't think a policy that says "don't put PII here" solves the issue. On the other hand, if the information stored can be assessed (like a security review) then I think it is testable whether PII is stored there or not.

```suggestion
[[R288]](#r288) Testability: Since BPI Storage can be reviewed to determine whether PII has been stored, the requirement is testable because).
```

#### **[R290]**	
Data Orchestration utilized in a BPI MUST preserve source consistency. 

[[R290]](#r290) Testability: Data Orchestration solutions preserving source consistency typically utilize a queued, redundant publish/subscribe messaging model. An example of such an implementation with a complete test suite is [Apache Kafka](https://github.com/apache/kafka). Therefore, the requirement is testable.

*To avoid subscribers seeing partial and/or inconsistent data, BPI Data Orchestration has the following requirements:*

#### **[R291]**	
Data Orchestration utilized in a BPI MUST implement transaction boundaries.

*This means that a single user's action can trigger atomic updates.*

[[R291]](#r291) Testability: Data Orchestration solutions with transaction boundaries typically utilize topic-driven publish/subscribe messaging models. An example of such an implementation with a complete test suite is [Apache Kafka](https://github.com/apache/kafka). Therefore, the requirement is testable.

#### **[R292]**	
Data Orchestration utilized in a BPI MUST commit the exact order in which operations happened on the primary database.

> [[R292]](#r292) Testability: Data Orchestration solutions which commit to and preserve operations order utilize a publish/subscribe messaging model where each message is uniquely associated to a topic and where the message identifier is deterministically created. An example of such an implementation with a complete test suite is [Apache Kafka](https://github.com/apache/kafka). Therefore, the requirement is testable.

Reviewer: I think the logical argument here is expressed in a way that isn't easy to interpret. As I understand the point, there are data orchestration solutions that have this property (achieved in part as explained although the explanation seems insufficient). Given that it is possible to use those, and test if they are used, the requirement is testable. Am I understanding correctly?

Author: Yes, you understood it correctly. Why it it insufficient? @chaals ... simply stating that it is, does not make it so.

Reviewer: Because deterministically creating the message identifier doesn't imply that it provides any information about ordering. I presume that the relevant information is there, based on your comments and using the example.

Reviewer: > It is the combination of deterministic message identifier with a given topic Message 1,3,5,7 in My car orders the messages for my car, and 2,4,6 for My other care orders it for that topic,

Yes, along with a reconciliation system that can order those messages to create the appropriate state.

But that isn't what the text in the PR says.

Author: @chaals ... reconciliation is not the role of data orchestration though. The consumer pulls the messages from a topic and the order is given by the order of the message ID. If aa system then adheres to that order is a different question entirely.

#### **[R293]**	
Data Orchestration utilized in a BPI MUST support a consistent state.

> [[R293]](#r293) Testability: Data Orchestration solutions that support a consistent state typically utilize a queued publish/subscribe messaging model where each message is uniquely associated to a topic and where the message identifier is deterministically created to preserve state by maintaining a history of state changes. An example of such an implementation with a complete test suite is [Apache Kafka](https://github.com/apache/kafka). Therefore, the requirement is testable.

Reviewer: It isn't clear how maintaining a history of state changes supports consistent state in a distributed system - I assume the key to that is the reconciliation process, which isn't mentioned in the text as written.

Author: @chaals no, the key is the properly ordered state changes which can be done because you have a deterministic message identifier ordering the state changes across topics which group state. It says consistent state, that does not have to be correct. Just that changes are properly ordered.

Author: There is one half-sentence missing, "..., and the message is removed from the data orchestration solution once consumed from a given topic, ..." that should clarify it. @chaals

#### **[R295]**	
Data Orchestration utilized in a BPI MUST NOT make assumptions about consumer uptime.

[[R295]](#r295) Testability: Data Orchestration solutions that make no assumptions about consumer uptime utilize a topic-driven publish/subscribe messaging system where messages are kept in topic queues until they are consumed by a subscribing application (consumer). An example of such an implementation with a complete test suite is [Apache Kafka](https://github.com/apache/kafka). Therefore, the requirement is testable.

#### **[R296]**	
Data Orchestration utilized in a BPI MUST isolate data source and consumers.

[[R296]](#r296) Testability: Data Orchestration solutions that isolate data source (producer) and consumer utilize a topic-driven publish/subscribe messaging system. An example of such an implementation with a complete test suite is [Apache Kafka](https://github.com/apache/kafka). Therefore, the requirement is testable.

#### **[R297]**	
Data Orchestration utilized in a BPI MUST support low latency.

> *Low latency in this context refers to a latency that does not impact the overall system latency of the BPI.*

Reviewer: Doesn't this open a potentially circular definition? If the orchestration is part of the BPI, then it supports any latency that doesn't impact its own operation. Would it make sense to clarify that the relevant impact is on the rest of the system?

Author: We define overall latency and impact on the system in an earlier section. so it is ok to just focus on this component. @chaals

Reviewer: OK. I strongly suggest adding "low latency" and "material impact" to the glossary, and linking to them for requirements like this.

Author: ok. will do.

* The communication between the services is captured using a packet capture system
* The encryption algorithm(s) in the test meets the security requirements of this document.

Test Steps:

1. Start the communication between the two services in the test environment using some plain text test data which is encrypted/decrypted by each service.
2. Capture the network traffic using the packet capture tool.
3. Inspect the captured packets to confirm that all data transmitted between the nodes is encrypted, and not in plain text, and can be decrypted using the key(s) used for encryption.
5. Repeat steps 1-3 for different types of data and communication scenarios (e.g., different data formats, different network topologies).

Expected Results: All data transmitted between the nodes is encrypted (does not appear in plain text).

The requirement is met, if all expected results are met. The requirement is not me, if any of the results are not meeting test expectations.

#### **[R280]** 
Data at rest in a BPI MUST be encrypted.

[[R280]](#r280) Testability: 

Preconditions: 

* There is a BPI test environment that can store data

> * The encryption algorithm(s) in the test meets the security requirements of this document.

Reviewer: What are they? link?

Author: added

Test Steps:

1. Identify the location of the data at rest in the BPI.

> 2. Verify that the data is encrypted and cannot be decrypted without the encryption/decryption key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Verify that the data is encrypted with the encryption/decryption key.
```
You can verify data has been encrypted. You can't demonstrate that it is impossible to decrypt - and that isn't the requirement stated.

3. Attempt to decrypt the encrypted data without the encryption/decryption key and verify that it is not possible.
5. Repeat steps 1-3 for different types of data and storage scenarios (e.g., different data formats, different storage media).

Expected Results: The data at rest in the BPI is encrypted and cannot be decrypted without the encryption/decrytion key.

The requirement is met, if all expected results are met. The requirement is not me, if any of the results are not meeting test expectations.

#### **[R281]**	
BPI Storage arranged in a network MUST support pairwise key/identity relationships between storage nodes.

*This is also known as a secure connection.*

[[R281]](#r281) Testability: 

Preconditions: 

* There is a BPI test environment with at least two independent storage nodes that communicate with each other

> * The communication between the services is onfigured to support pairwise key/identity relationships

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The communication between the services is configured to support pairwise key/identity relationships
```

* The encryption/decryption algorithm(s) in the test meets the security requirements of this document.

Test Steps:

1. Verify that each storage node has a unique identity and a corresponding public key.
2. Establish a pairwise key/identity relationship between two storage nodes.
3. Verify that the storage nodes can communicate securely using the established relationship.

> 4. Attempt to access the data stored on one storage node from the other without using the established relationship and verify that it is not possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Verify that the storage node does not provide access to the data stored except using the established relationship.
```

This is a re-word that I think still isn't quite right, but doesn't require proof of impossibility (because that's usually not feasible)

5. Repeat steps 2-4 for different pairs of storage nodes in the network.

Expected Results:
1. Each storage node has a unique identity and a corresponding public key.
2. The pairwise key/identity relationships between storage nodes are established.
3. The storage nodes can communicate securely using the established relationships.
4. It is not possible to access the data stored on one storage node from the other without using the established relationship.

The requirement is met, if all expected results are met. The requirement is not me, if any of the results are not meeting test expectations.

#### **[R282]**	
BPI Storage MUST be compatible with commonly used external authentication services. 

*Non-normative examples of such authentication technologies are OAUTH [[OAuth-2.0](#oauth-20)] , SAML [[SAML](#saml)] , OIDC [[OIDC](#oidc)], AD/LDAP [[ActiveDirectory](#activedirectory)].*

[[R282]](#r282) Testability: 

Preconditions: 

> * A typical BPI Storage e.g. the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base deployed in a BPI test environment with a BPI client and a BPI server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A BPI Storage e.g. the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base deployed in a BPI test environment with a BPI client and a BPI server
```

(Doesn't matter if it is typical or not, you test the one you have)

> * An authemtication service to be used with the BPI Storage such as [[OAuth-2.0](#oauth-20)] between client and server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An authentication service to be used with the BPI Storage such as [[OAuth-2.0](#oauth-20)] between client and server.
```

1. Create a BPI Subject within the BPI with a public-private cryptographic key pair based on one of the cryptographic algorithms supported by the authentication service chosen for the BPI Subject
2. Create an authentication policy for the BPI Storage supported by each of the authemtication services chosen for the test  
2. Attempt to authenticate the BPI Subject with the BPI Storage using each of the identified external authentication services for the test.
3. Verify that the authentication of the BPI Subject is successful and the BPI Subject is granted the appropriate access to the BPI Storage as per the test authentication policy.
4. Repeat the above steps for each supported external authentication service.

Test pass criteria:

The test will pass if one or more of the external authentication services successfully authenticate a BPI Subject to the BPI Storage and the BPI Subject is granted the type of access to the BPI Storage as defined in the test policy. 

Note that the test policy could be any combination of read and write access to the BPI Storage.

#### **[R283]**	
BPI Storage MUST support roles & access management.

[[R283]](#r283) Testability: 

Preconditions: 

> * Identify the roles that need to be supported by the BPI Storage, based on the functional requirements and design specifications such as "Administrators" with full read and write permissions or "ReadUser" with only read permissions.

Reviewer: Given that there are some examples, but no clear explanation of the minimum requirements to test, this seems to demonstrate that the requirement is inadequately expressed.

One approach would be to require a minimum set of defined roles, another would be to point to a defined mechanism such as RBAC (or one of its friends), and then test that in detail.

Author: rewrote test such that examples could be removed without suffering logical specificity and clarity (hopefully)

3. Verify that the operations are allowed or denied based on the permissions associated with the BPI Subject's role.
4. Attempt to perform operations that require higher permissions than the current BPI Subject's role such as writing for a "ReadUser" role.
5. Verify that such operations are denied and an appropriate error message is displayed.
6. Repeat the above steps for each supported role.

Test pass criteria:

The test will pass if all supported roles are successfully tested, and BPI Subjects are able to perform operations only as allowed by their role's permissions. Additionally, attempting operations that require higher permissions than the current BPI Subject's role must be denied, and appropriate error messages must be displayed.

#### **[R284]**	
BPI Storage MUST support policy management.

[[R284]](#r284) Testability:

Preconditions:

* A BPI test environment is installed and configured properly.
* The BPI storage component is designed to support policy management.
* A BPI Subject has appropriate permissions to create, modify, and delete policies.

Test Steps:

> 1. Create a set of policies that the BPI storage component should be able to manage, including access control policies, retention policies, and deletion policies.

Reviewer: As with comments for R283, the requirement seems underspecified. If the BPI has to support managing policies for
- access control,
- retention, and
- deletion,

that should be written into the requirement itself.

Author: added policy examples and removed the specific example from the test and modified the language to be more concise and precise without requiring specific examples. The requirement is not under-specified. It is intentionally left very broad leaving significant implementation flexibility.

Reviewer: The requirement is broad, but I think it is also under-specified. Implementing RBAC or some other access control policy likely meets it, making the requirement redundant as is - but equally, as written, implementing management of whether to use stripes or not in reporting outputs could be argued as meeting it. (Admittedly that's a pretty perverse argument).

* Successful login using a SSO provider grants access to the BPI.
* Access to protected resources or actions within the BPI is granted only to BPI Subjects with appropriate permissions.
* Invalid or expired SSO tokens result in access being denied and an appropriate error message being displayed.
* Logging out of the BPI logs the BPI Subject out of the SSO provider and revokes the BPI Subject's BPI session.

#### **[R286]**	
BPI Storage MUST support multi-factor authentication (MFA)

*See the link here for the NIST definition adopted in this document [MFA](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/mfa).*

[[R286]](#r286) Testability: 

Preconditions:

* A BPI test environment is installed and configured properly.
* The BPI storage component is designed to support MFA.
* A BPI Subject has appropriate permissions to access the BPI.

Test Steps:

1. Attempt to access the BPI's user interface or API without providing any authentication credentials.
2. Verify that the BPI redirects the BPI Subject to a login page or displays a message indicating that authentication is required.

> 3. Enter valid username and password credentials to log in to the BPI.
> 4. Verify that the BPI grants access to the BPI Subject after successful authentication with username and password.
> 5. Attempt to access a protected resource or perform a protected action within the BPI.
> 6. Verify that the BPI grants access to the BPI Subject if the BPI Subject has appropriate permissions.

Reviewer: The BPI might require MFA for everything, in which case you fail these steps without failing the requirement.
```suggestion
```

Author: removed the username and password reference. should work now

7. Attempt to enable MFA for the BPI Subject account used to log in to the BPI.
8. Verify that the BPI supports multiple factors for MFA, such as SMS, email, or an authenticator app.

> 9. Attempt to log out and log back in to the BPI using only the username and password credentials.

Reviewer: As written, I don't think one of the factors needs to be username+password. Which would mean this step isn't appropriate.

Author: removed and reworded. steps still required.

10. Verify that the BPI requires the BPI Subject to provide an additional factor of authentication for MFA after the initial login.
11. Attempt to access a protected resource or perform a protected action within the BPI.
12. Verify that the BPI grants access to the BPI Subject if the BPI Subject has appropriate permissions and has provided the required additional factor of authentication for MFA.

> 13 Attempt to disable MFA for the BPI Subject account used to log in to the BPI.
> 14 Verify that the BPI disables MFA for the BPI Subject account and allows the BPI Subject to log in with only username and password credentials.

Reviewer: Where is the requirement to support access without MFA?
```suggestion
```

Author: it shows that access works even when the MFA is not activated which is in the spirit of the word "support" rather than a more stringent one such as "use".

Reviewer: Yes, but it presupposes that you can turn off the MFA. The requirement to "support" MFA doesn't state "as an option that can be disabled", so enforcing a requirement for MFA everywhere is a valid implementation strategy, but one that would fail the proposed testing plan.

Either the testing plan needs to be changed to take account of this, or the requirement should be rewritten to be clear that the MFA has to be optional.

Test Passing Criteria: The test will pass if

* The BPI redirects the BPI Subject to a login page or displays a message indicating that authentication is required.

> *Successful login using username and password credentials grants access to the BPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

*Access to protected resources or actions within the BPI is granted only to users with appropriate permissions.
*The BPI supports multiple factors for MFA, such as SMS, email, or an authenticator app.
*After enabling MFA, the BPI requires the BPI Subject to provide an additional factor of authentication for MFA after the initial login.
*Access to protected resources or actions within the BPI is granted only if the BPI Subject has provided the required additional factor of authentication for MFA.

> *After disabling MFA, the BPI allows the BPI Subject to log in with only username and password credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### **[R287]**	
BPI Storage MUST support hardware security modules (HSM). 

*This document adopts the [NIST definition](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/hardware_security_module_hsm) and for further information, refer to [[HSM](#hsm)].*

[[R287]](#r287) Testability:

Preconditions:

* A BPI test environment is installed and configured properly.

> * The BPI storage component is designed to support an HSM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is the requirement you are testing.

Author: changed to "configured"

* The HSM is installed and properly configured to work with the BPI storage component.
* A BPI Subject has appropriate permissions to access the BPI.

Test Steps:

1. Attempt to access the BPI's user interface or API without providing any authentication credentials.
2. Verify that the BPI redirects the BPI Subject to a login page or displays a message indicating that authentication is required.

> 3. Enter valid username and password credentials to log in to the BPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Log in to the BPI.
```
(There are requirements on how you do this, but the details shouldn't influence the outcome of this test)

> 4. Verify that the BPI grants access to the BPI Subject after successful authentication with username and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Verify that the BPI grants access to the BPI Subject after successful authentication.
```

> 5. Attempt to perform a cryptographic operation that requires the use of the HSM, such as signing a message or verifying a signature.

Reviewer: This suggests the requirement isn't framed clearly enough - what does the HSM need to be able to do?

Author: reworded to be precisely in line with NIST definitions around key material and cryptographic processing.

2. Attempt to authenticate the BPI Subject with the BPI Storage using each of the identified external authentication services for the test.
3. Verify that the authentication of the BPI Subject is successful and the BPI Subject is granted the appropriate access to the BPI Storage as per the test authentication policy.
4. Repeat the above steps for each supported external authentication service.

Test pass criteria:

The test will pass if one or more of the external authentication services successfully authenticate a BPI Subject to the BPI Storage and the BPI Subject is granted the type of access to the BPI Storage as defined in the test policy. 

Note that the test policy could be any combination of read and write access to the BPI Storage.

#### **[R283]**	
BPI Storage MUST support roles & access management.

[[R283]](#r283) Testability: 

Preconditions: 

* Identify roles and levels of access required that need to be supported by the BPI Storage, based on the business requirements of the test use case.
* A BPI test system is up and running.
* Two or more BPI Subjects and BPI Subject Accounts created in the BPI

Test steps:

> 1. Create two or more test BPU Subjects and assign them to the identified roles and the level of access specified for each role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create two or more test BPI Subjects and assign them to the identified roles and the level of access specified for each role.
```

2. Attempt to perform various operations on the BPI Storage using each test BPI Subject.
3. Verify that the operations are allowed or denied based on the access permissions associated with each of the BPI Subjects' role.
4. Attempt to perform operations that require different access permissions than the test BPI Subjects' role.
5. Verify that such operations are denied and an appropriate error message is displayed.
6. Repeat the above steps for each test role.

Test pass criteria:

* The test will pass if all test roles are successfully tested, and the test BPI Subjects are able to perform operations only as allowed by their role's permissions. 
* Additionally, attempting operations that require different permissions than the test BPI Subjects' roles must be denied, and appropriate error messages must be displayed.

#### **[R284]**	

> BPI Storage MUST support policy management.
> 
> *Examples of such policies are rules governing creation, modification, deletion, and retention of data.* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BPI Storage MUST support policy management, at least enabling the creation, modification and removal of rules governing creation, modification, deletion, and retention of data.
```
This change provides an example minimal functional requirement. It can be tested, and it is a useful set of policies that can be managed. There is no constraint on what else might be implemented, and multiple specific implementation strategies can work (e.g. build a UI directly in the tool, import configuration files defined and created somewhere else, enable ABAC or RBAC control over who can perform these tasks, ...)

Author: @chaals it was intentionally left as an example because an append-only BPI storage, such as IPFS, a perfectly valid choice, is append-only by design, without the need for extra policies as would be required for e.g. PostGres. Therefore, embedding specific data policies as requirements constrains the solution space too much.  I would very much prefer to leave the examples as is and allow more freedom as to the type of policies e.g. each a write creating a zkp of correct write execution.

Reviewer: The problem with that is as a conscientious implementor, you are making it hard for me to know when I am done. And as someone who just wants to tick the box, I'll implement the ability to turn off some flag, call it a policy, and claim I am done.

No interoperability in practice, and a requirement that frustrates people trying to do the right thing.

Setting a minimum bar is helpful. I agree with you 100% that constraining people to some minimal level is just a bad idea.

Author: @chaals policy management needs to be defined -- just CRUD for policies is what this means. Lemme add that. That should clear it up. Supporting role and access policies is an earlier requirement.

6. Verify that the BPI grants access to the BPI Subject if the BPI Subject has appropriate permissions.
7. Attempt to access a protected resource or perform a protected action within the BPI using an invalid or expired SSO token.
8. Verify that the BPI denies access to the BPI Subject and provides an appropriate error message.
9. Attempt to log out of the BPI.
10. Verify that the BPI logs out the BPI Subject from the SSO provider and revokes the BPI Subject's BPI session.

Test Passing Criteria: The test will pass if

* The BPI redirects the BPI Subject to a SSO login page or displays a message indicating that authentication is required.
* Successful login using a SSO provider grants access to the BPI.
* Access to protected resources or actions within the BPI is granted only to BPI Subjects with appropriate permissions.
* Invalid or expired SSO tokens result in access being denied and an appropriate error message being displayed.
* Logging out of the BPI logs the BPI Subject out of the SSO provider and revokes the BPI Subject's BPI session.

#### **[R286]**	
BPI Storage MUST support multi-factor authentication (MFA)

> *See the link here for the NIST definition adopted in this document [MFA](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/mfa).*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*This document adopts [NIST's definition of MFA](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/mfa).*
```

Reviewer: Which one, given that there are two listed there?

Author: they are all functionally equivalent.

Test Passing Criteria: The test will pass if

* The BPI redirects the BPI Subject to a login page or displays a message indicating that authentication is required.
* Successful login grants access to the BPI.
* The BPI can generate a cryptographic key using the HSM.
* The BPI can store a cryptographic key securely in the HSM.
* The BPI can retrieve a cryptographic key securely from the HSM.
* The BPI can delete a cryptographic key securely from the HSM.
* The BPI can perform cryptographic processing operations available in the HSM.

## 7.2. BPI Storage Privacy
###### BPISTORAGEPRIVACY

As has been done throughout this document, there are BPI layer-specific privacy requirements for layers and/or components which are listed below. It is assumed that the BPI Storage capabilities are required to fulfill all BPI privacy requirements in section [2 Design and Architecture](#2-design-and-architecture).

#### **[R288]**	
Personal Identifiable Information (PII) MUST NOT be stored in a BPI.

[[R288]](#r288) Testability: 

Preconditions:

* A BPI test environment is installed and configured properly.

> * The BPI storage component contains identification methods to prevent storing Personal Identifiable Information (PII).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is what you're testing, not a precondition of the test

Test Steps:

1. Create a record that contains PII, such as a name, address, social security number, or phone number.
2. Attempt to store the record in the BPI using a write operation method, such as POST or PUT.
3. Verify that the BPI rejects the record and returns an error message indicating that the record contains PII and cannot be stored.
4. Create a record that does not contain PII, such as a random string or number.
5. Attempt to store the record in the BPI using a write operation method, such as POST or PUT.
6. Verify that the BPI accepts the record and stores it successfully.

Example Methods to identify PII:

* Use regular expressions or data pattern matching to identify common PII data elements in a record.
* Compare record data with a pre-defined list of PII data elements to identify PII.

Test Passing Criteria: The test will pass if

* The BPI rejects the storage of records that contain Personal Identifiable Information (PII) and returns an error message indicating that PII cannot be stored.
* The BPI accepts the storage of records that do not contain PII and stores them successfully.
* The BPI is able to identify PII using the specified methods.

> * The BPI correctly identifies records that contain PII and rejects their storage.

Reviewer: I think it's reasonable for the BPI to provide a workflow that effectively requires users to enforce this. Identifying PII as a general problem is a very complex task...

Note: The test above only verifies write operations, as the requirement is related to the storage of PII. However, read operations should also be checked to ensure that PII cannot be accessed or returned in query results.

#### **[D39]**	
BPI Storage arranged in a network SHOULD utilize privacy-preserving P2P message protocols.

[[D39]](#d39) Testability: 

Preconditions:
* BPI Storage is arranged in a two node network that can support pairwise key/identity relationships between storage nodes in a testable manner (see [[R282]](#r282) for testing details)

Test Steps:
1. Using a pairwise key/identity relationship between the two BPI storage nodes, asymmetrically encrypt a message such as a data replication message.
2. Perform Test from [[R279]](#r279)

Test Passing Criteria: The test will pass if the test passing criteria in [[R279]](#r279) Testability are met.

## 7.3. BPI Data Orchestration
###### BPIDATAORCHESTRATION

> Data Orchestration is an automated process for taking siloed data from multiple storage locations, combining and organizing it, and making it available for analysis.

Reviewer: Given this is defined above in the glossary I'm not sure it needs to be repeated verbatim here.

```suggestion
```

Author: No everyone reads the glossary so it is good to have it in the text or at least link to glossary

Reviewer: Linking it to the glossary is really good. That's why the web is cool.

Repeating the text 2 or three times is pretty bad. It makes the document "heavier" to read, meaning fewer people will read it carefully.

(And for may readers, it comes across as sloppy editing, which isn't a win).

5. Restore the failed Data Orchestration node to the network.
6. Verify that the restored node can synchronize with the other nodes in the Data Orchestration component and that the BPI continues to function correctly.

Test Passing Criteria: The test will pass if

* The Data Orchestration component used in the BPI consists of multiple nodes distributed across different servers or locations.
* The BPI is able to handle the failure of one or more Data Orchestration nodes without any errors or data loss.
* The restored Data Orchestration node is able to synchronize with the other nodes in the component and the BPI continues to function correctly.

Note: Additional tests may be required to verify that the Data Orchestration component can handle high traffic and is able to scale horizontally to accommodate additional nodes as needed.

#### **[R290]**	
Data Orchestration utilized in a BPI MUST preserve data consistency from source to target within the BPI. 

[[R290]](#r290) Testability: 

Preconditions:

* A BPI test environment is installed and configured properly.
* The data source is not directly connected to the data target within the BPI.

> * The Data Orchestration component in the BPI is designed to preserve data consistency from source to target within the BPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is what you're testing.

* The data retrieved from the BPI target system matches the data that was written to the BPI.
* All of the written data is consistent across both the BPI and the target system, even under multiple concurrent write operations.

*To avoid subscribers seeing partial and/or inconsistent data, BPI Data Orchestration has the following requirements:*

#### **[R291]**	
Data Orchestration utilized in a BPI MUST implement transaction boundaries.

*This means that a single BPI Subject's action can trigger atomic updates. A transaction boundary is defined as where a transaction begins or ends, where within the transaction all writes to a system are atomic, in that they either all complete, or are all reverted if any single write in a given transaction fails. An atomic update is defined as an indivisible and irreducible series of system operations such that either all occurs, or nothing occurs. An example of a transaction boundary is a "Create Invoice" transaction that creates an invoice in a system or fails if an error occurs.*

[[R291]](#r291) Testability: 

Preconditions:

* A BPI test environment is installed and configured properly.

> * The Data Orchestration component in the BPI is designed to implement transaction boundaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
what's tested isn't a precondition

> * Several transaction types are defined within the BPI as part of Data Orchestration, including what consitutes a correctly and incorrectly formed transaction, and how often a transaction of a specific transaction type should be made available to worksteps processing this transaction type.

Author: @chaals transaction boundary is a well-defined term in CS and it is intentionally vague to leave room for multiple types of solutions. The test is specific so as to be a hint to make it easier for an implementer skilled in the art to pick one of the existing solutions meeting this requirement such as Apache Kafka. This is all that is required in this case without prejudicing too much.

> * Several transaction types are defined within the BPI as part of Data Orchestration, including what consitutes a correctly and incorrectly formed transaction, and how often a transaction of a specific transaction type should be made available to worksteps processing this transaction type.

Reviewer: The requirement should be specific enough that the implementor knows they have met it.

> * Several transaction types are defined within the BPI as part of Data Orchestration, including what consitutes a correctly and incorrectly formed transaction, and how often a transaction of a specific transaction type should be made available to worksteps processing this transaction type.

Author: The done criteria are specified in the definition of transaction boundary together with atomic updates. That is quite clear and well-understood by CS practitioners. At least to my understanding. The precondition with transaction types is just a helpful hint for implementers on how to write a test. I can completely remove it, and replace it with "An implementation of one or more transaction boundaries as per definition, and as relevant for the chose test case". Just thought it was helpful to be a bit more specific. @chaals

* *All messages will eventually reach their intended recipients* 
* *After a certain, yet unknown, time the network will become synchronous again*

[[R303]](#r303) Testability: Eventual consistency between different BPI storage can be achieved utilizing a P2P messaging solution with eventual consistency for data synchronization. Such a P2P solution is [libp2p](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p) with its complete test suite. Therefore, the requirement is testable 

#### **[R304]**	
Replication conflicts MUST be automatically detectable. 

[[R304]](#r304) Testability: An example of external BPI storage that can detect replication conflicts automatically is the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite including replication tests, the requirement is testable.

#### **[R305]** 
Replication conflicts MUST be resolvable either automatically or manually.

> [[R305]](#r305) Testability: An example of external BPI storage that can resolve replication conflicts automatically (e.g. rejecting conflicing updates), as well as manually (e.g. update a table update SQL procedure) is the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite including replication tests, the requirement is testable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[[R305]](#r305) Testability: An example of external BPI storage that can resolve replication conflicts automatically (e.g. rejecting conflicting updates), as well as manually (e.g. update a table update SQL procedure) is the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite including replication tests, the requirement is testable.
```

#### **[R306]**	
BPI Edge Storage MUST use a secure and privacy-preserving wire protocol.

[[R306]](#r306) Testability: libp2p as a very commonly used P2P message/wire protocol supports end-to-end encryption, see [here](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/noise/README.md) for the NOISE specification and relevant tests [here](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p/blob/master/test-plans/cmd/ping/main.go) as well as authentication and authorization solutions such as OAuth-2.0. This shows that the requirement is testable.

#### **[D40]**	
BPI Edge Storage SHOULD be able to cryptographically sign messages.

[[D40]](#d40) Testability: An example of external BPI storage that can sign messages is the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base using SSL, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite including SSL certificate testing, the requirement is testable.

#### **[D41]**	
BPI Edge Storage SHOULD be discoverable by BPI Workgroup members or their delegates within a BPI.

> [[D41]](#d41) Testability: A BPI Storage access endpoint can be listed in the `Services` section of a DID document. Since BPI Subjects as members of a Worjgroup can be associated with a DID, and since a DID can be resolved to its DID Document including ite 'Services' section, and since the W3C DID Standard has an existing test suite for DID methods claiming conformance, the requirement is testable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[[D41]](#d41) Testability: A BPI Storage access endpoint can be listed in the `Services` section of a DID document. Since BPI Subjects as members of a Workgroup can be associated with a DID, and since a DID can be resolved to its DID Document including its 'Services' section, and since the W3C DID Standard has an existing test suite for DID methods claiming conformance, the requirement is testable.
```

#### **[R307]**	
BPI Edge Storage MUST support BPI identifiers and identity as defined in this document. See section [3 Identifiers, Identity and Credential Management](#3-identifiers-identity-and-credential-management).

> [[R307]](#r307) Testability: Since OAuth-2.0 can utilize DIDs which can be used as BPI identifiers and identities, and since the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base supports OAuth-2.0, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite including OAuth-2.0 tests, the requirement is testable.

Reviewer: Does the PostgreSQL test suite specifically cover the use of DIDs in OAuth-2? Otherwise the assertion has a gap in its justification

Author: @chaals it does not because since Oathu2 with DID is testable and Oauth2 is testable within postgres the entirety is testable. It does not mean that such tests exist yet (need to modify the postgres tests according to the Oauth2 tests with DIDs). Just that they are possible to create.

Reviewer: I think you mean "the assertion doesn't have a gap in its justification", by your answer "it does not".

Since the text doesn't point out that the use of DIDs in OAuth 2 is testable, I think there is a logical gap there.

(Under the alternative interpretation of your comment, that there are not tests for OAuth using DID in PostgreSQL I still think there is a gap - suggesting that specific tests can be created just because there are already extensive tests is pretty weak logic, and the claims of testability are all about logic).

Author: will add "testably utilize" for DIDs and Oauth2 and a link to a reference with test.

#### **[R308]**	
BPI Edge Storage MUST support Partially Persistent Data and Fully Persistent Data (see section [7.5 BPI-Internal Storage](#75-bpi-internal-storage)) requirements for security, privacy, and integration.

> [[R308]](#r308) Testability: Since BPI Edge Storage is a type of BPI Storage that could be used in a BPI and since all the requirements in section 7.5 BPI-Internal Storage](#75-bpi-internal-storage)) are testable, this requirement is testable as well.

Reviewer: This feels like a circular argument... I could be wrong though.

Author: @chaals one could argue that R308 should come after section 7.5 but otherwise, I do not see why this is circular since internal storage can also be used as external, edge storage.

* *Support for database clustering to process high data volumes in short periods of time (sub second processing)*
* *Security features that adhere to established industry security standards such as the US Federal Information Processing Standard [[FIPS](#fips)] or [[ISO 27001](#iso27001)]*  

> [[R309]](#r309) Testability: An example of a BPI consistent with the requirement is the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite in line with enterprise-grade data base solutions, the requirement is testable.

Reviewer: What's the basis for claiming that PostgreSQL is consistent with the requirement?

The existence of a test suite seems entirely irrelevant to the claim of testability.

Is there any way to generalise this further than "if you use PostgreSQL you successfully meet this requirement"?

Author: @chaals Not only postgres, of course, but yes, there is not really a way to generalize this. This is a "mollify enterprises" requirement. One could add .. and has undergone enterprise and government certification processes".

Reviewer: I'm not sure that "enterprises are happy" belongs in a spec. If the spec is good enough, enterprises will be happy to use it. So the requirements should be clear enough to make a decision on whether an implementation meets them. Nothing stops an implementation doing other things to make an enterprise happy, if that seems necessary. If it's a particular thing that lots want, make it a formal requirement, otherwise, leave it to the market - different users will have different levels of happiness with different implementation approaches.

Author: I added a reference to a multi-certificate (enterprise, security, regulation) MSFT Azure PostgreSQL implementation that meets the mentioned requirements @chaals that should do it.

#### **[O8]** 
Centralized BPI Storage MAY be partially persistent. 

> [[O8]](#o8) Testability: An example of centralized BPI Stroage that can be made partially consistent by restricing writes to a row in a table to one time is the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite, the requirement is testable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[[O8]](#o8) Testability: An example of centralized BPI Storage that can be made partially consistent by restricting writes to a row in a table to one time is the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite, the requirement is testable.
```

#### **[CR34]>[O8]** 
Partially Persistent BPI Storage  MUST be append-only.

*Non-normative examples of such data bases are, but not limited to, OracleDB, MongoDB, PostGres, Cassandra, and DynamoDB.*

> [[CR34]>[O8]](#cr34o8) Testability: An example of centralized BPI Stroage that is append-only by restricing writes to a row in a table to one time is the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite, the requirement is testable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[[CR34]>[O8]](#cr34o8) Testability: An example of centralized BPI Storage that is append-only by restricting writes to a row in a table to one time is the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite, the requirement is testable.
```

*Non-normative examples include, but are not limited to, certificate authorities or a self-certifying PKI namespace.* 

> [[R310]](#r310) Testability: A BPI Storage through one or more access endpointa can be listed in the `Services` section of a DID document. Since BPI Subjects can be associated with a DID of a given DID method -- the authenticated naming system --, and since a DID can be resolved to its DID Document including ite 'Services' section and the cryptographic keys associated with the DID capabilities, and since the W3C DID Standard has an existing test suite for DID methods claiming conformance, the requirement is testable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[[R310]](#r310) Testability: A BPI Storage through one or more access endpoints can be listed in the `Services` section of a DID document. Since BPI Subjects can be associated with a DID of a given DID method -- the authenticated naming system --, and since a DID can be resolved to its DID Document including its 'Services' section and the cryptographic keys associated with the DID capabilities, and since the W3C DID Standard has an existing test suite for DID methods claiming conformance, the requirement is testable.
```

#### **[R311]**	
BPI Storage  MUST support a data exchange protocol that allows for large blocks of data to be replicated. A large data block in this document is defined to be larger than 1MB but less than 128MB. 

> [[R311]](#r311) Testability: An example of a BPI Stroage that can replicate large data sizes is the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite, the requirement is testable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[[R311]](#r311) Testability: An example of a BPI Storage that can replicate large data sizes is the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite, the requirement is testable.
```

#### **[R312]**	
BPI Storage  MUST support a routing protocol that enables locating data peers and data objects.

*Non-normative examples are [libp2p](#libp2p) or distributed hash tables [[DHT]](#dht).*

[[R312]](#r312) Testability: An example of BPI Storage that allows for locating other data peer and data objects is the open-source protocol [Interplenetary File System (IPFS)](https://github.com/ipfs/kubo) with its complete test suite. Therefore, the requirement is testable.

#### **[R313]**	

> BPI Storage  MUST support a Network Protocol that handles:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BPI Storage  MUST support a Network Protocol that handles all of:
```

* NAT traversal such as hole punching, port mapping, and relay
* Multiple transport protocols
* Encryption, signing, or clear communications
* Multi-multiplexes such as Multiplex connections, streams, protocols, peers

[[R313]](#r313) Testability: An example of BPI Storage that incorporates a Network Protocol as described in the requirement is the open-source protocol [Interplenetary File System (IPFS)](https://github.com/ipfs/kubo) with its complete test suite, because it utilizes the P2P Network Protocol [libp2p](#libp2p) with its complete test suite that has the required properties. Therefore, the requirement is testable.

#### **[R314]**	
Fully Persistent BPI Storage  MUST support Generalized Time Stamps.

*Non-normative examples are conflict-free replicated data types [[CRDT](#crdt)] or Interval Tree Clocks [[ITC](#itc)] to ensure eventual data consistency.*

> [[R313]](#r313) Testability: An example of a Fully Persistent BPI Stroage that supports Generalized Time Stamps is the [CRDT Extension](https://github.com/supabase/pg_crdt) of the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite as well as the CRDT extension, the requirement is testable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[[R313]](#r313) Testability: An example of a Fully Persistent BPI Storage that supports Generalized Time Stamps is the [CRDT Extension](https://github.com/supabase/pg_crdt) of the open-source [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) data base, and since PostgreSQL has an extensive test suite as well as the CRDT extension, the requirement is testable.
```

#### **[O9]** 
Decentralized BPI Storage MAY be partially persistent.

[[O9]](#o9) Testability: An example of a Decentralized BPI Storage that is partially persistent is the open-source protocol [Interplenetary File System (IPFS)](https://github.com/ipfs/kubo) with its complete test suite. Therefore, the requirement is testable.

#### **[CR35]>[O9]**	
Partially Persistent BPI Storage  MUST support Generalized Time Stamps or consensus protocols that guarantee eventual data consistency.

> [[R313]](#r313) Testability: Since the PostGres data base can be made partially persistent according to the testable requirement [[O8]](#o8) and since since Postgres supports CRDTs as shown in the testable requirement [[R313]](#r313), the requirment is testable. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[[R313]](#r313) Testability: Since the PostGres data base can be made partially persistent according to the testable requirement [[O8]](#o8) and since since Postgres supports CRDTs as shown in the testable requirement [[R313]](#r313), the requirement is testable. 
```

> [[R313]](#r313) Testability: Since the PostGres data base can be made partially persistent according to the testable requirement [[O8]](#o8) and since since Postgres supports CRDTs as shown in the testable requirement [[R313]](#r313), the requirement is testable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[R313]](#r313) Testability: Since the PostGres data base can be made partially persistent according to the testable requirement [[O8]](#o8) and since Postgres supports CRDTs as shown in the testable requirement [[R313]](#r313), the requirement is testable. 
```

2. Read the data from all replicas of the Fully Persistent BPI Storage.
3. Verify that the data is consistent across all replicas and reflects the latest changes.
4. Modify the data in one replica of the Fully Persistent BPI Storage.
5. Write the modified data to one replica of the Fully Persistent BPI Storage.
6. Read the modified data from all replicas of the Fully Persistent BPI Storage.
7. Verify that the modified data is consistent across all replicas and reflects the latest changes.
8. Write data to two replicas of the Fully Persistent BPI Storage where the data written to the frst replica is not consistent with the data written to the second replica and the first data set is written by client 1 and data set two is written by client 2, and there is a time delay between first and second data set.
9. Verify that the chosen Generalized Time Stamp mechanism works properly by successfully repeating steps 2. through 7. where only the first data set is replicated.  

Test Passing Criteria:

* The data written and modified in the Fully Persistent BPI Storage is consistent across all replicas.
* The data reflects the latest changes made to it.

> The BPI Storage system has successfully stored data conflict-free using Generalized Time Stamps with eventual data consistency condition, and the data can be retrieved without inconsistencies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The BPI Storage system has successfully stored data conflict-free using Generalized Time Stamps with eventual data consistency conditions, and the data can be retrieved without inconsistencies.
```

> * The Fully Persistent BPI Storage provides full data persistency.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The Fully Persistent BPI Storage provides full data persistence.
```
